{sample: true}

> Do not pray for an easy life, pray for the strength to endure a difficult one. - Bruce Lee

# Becoming a Beast

The 3 pillars:

- Weight training
- Diet
- Consistency

Let me begin by clearing something up - there is no easy way to get the results you're seeking. There is, however, a lot of hard ways that will not give you the results, either.

Your body composition is highly dependant on your diet. You might have all the muscle you need, but with a layer of fat, you still got a lot of work.

## Who are you?

This book is written for the beginner. You have less than a year of lifting experience and still getting stronger fast (almost every workout). You have no expertise in exercises and can't design your own programs.

Here are the most common mistakes you can do at this stage:

-**Starting with too complicated program** - Please, do not follow the advanced/expert chest or legs routine of your favorite bodybuilder/powerlifter. You need a tiny amounts of stimulus to get huge results (newbie gains). Milk that time!

-**EGO lifting** - The fastest way to get stronger and more jacked is by properly doing the exercises and eating enough. All your work might be invalidated if you're half-repping 45 lb plates on the bench. You might get injured too!

-**Constantly changing your programs** - "You have to shock the muscle". NO! Just train and you'll get jacked/stronger. Nothing advanced at this stage. You have to practice and build mastery!

-**Overthinking** - Do the concentric faster or slower. Twisting at the top of the bicep curl. You rest exactly 120 seconds. This doesn't matter! Lift the freaking weight up and down. Don't think about that stuff. It wouldn't make even 1% of a difference.

## TL;DR (of the whole book)

You are a beginner:

> Newbie lifters can grow with almost any program/routine. Your first year of lifting should focus on learning how to do exercises and building the habit of hitting the gym. Your diet (and genetics) dictates the amount of muscle and/or fat you're gaining.

Muscle building:

> You need to eat enough to slowly gain weight (about 0.25% of your body weight/week), increase the weight on the bar/dumbbells, do more. Eat 1.1 grams/lb protein and 16 kcal/lb calories.

Weight loss:

> You need to lose about 1% of your body weight/week. Eat slightly fewer calories than the required to maintain your weight. Keep your protein relatively high, about 1.25 grams/lb, and eat 11.5 kcal/lb.

## The secret

Have you heard of the new supplement that adds 10 lbs of muscle while burning fat in 2 weeks? How about the new exercise (machine) that effortlessly works all your muscles? Fitness fads are all around you, and I wish some of them were true. But they are not. If something promises quick results without effort - you should probably run away from it.

There is no secret! No secret exercise(s), no secret diet, no secret way of doing cardio (fasted cardio squad hating right now). There are, however, effective ways to build your workouts, choose your calorie intake, and minimize your time at the gym (so you can enjoy your life).

## Practice over theory

You might be big on exercise science, reading all the studies from top researchers and all. That is awesome! Continue to do that if you like it. But please remember, you need to be a meathead if you want the best results possible - you need to train hard, eat right, sleep, and keep at it for extended periods. There are no substitutes for that - no supplements, no PEDs, no magical potions can substitute those. Of course, good genetics will help a lot.

## Train, don't exercise

"Now, I train to be healthy" - a colleague of mine said to me. "I want to become X and just maintain". No, you need to train and continue to improve!

In general, you want to set goals and strive to achieve them. Following the perfect diet and workout plan for a month or two will get you nowhere! Consistency is key! You should keep yourself motivated. Making progress towards your goals is one of the best ways to stay in the game!

## Man or a woman?

Prepare yourself for a shocker. Training, diet, and consistency should be no different based on your gender, age, or ethnicity. Of course, you should be cleared by your health professional to embark on this journey!

## Do you just want to lose fat?

No! Odds are, you want to look good, not skinny. That means low body fat percentage combined with a good amount of muscle. Of course, you should pack some fat in the right places, too!

## Should you sleep at the gym to get results?

No! You can start by spending 3 x 1h 30min per week, up that to 4 x 2 hours, and keep that up to 5+ years.

## Will you achieve your goals?

Yes, as long as you're reasonable with setting them! Look, your genetics will play a significant role. Still, you don't know your limits until you hit them! More importantly, no one can tell you what they are until you get there!

## Is weight training dangerous?

In a word - NO! In fact, resistance training is one of the safest physical activities you can do. Of course, you can get injured if you do stupid stuff. Learn how to perform the exercises and keep your fatigue in check.

Here is a study you can read for further information: [The Epidemiology of Injuries Across the Weight-Training Sports](https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0921/2818/files/Keogh_Winwood_Weight_Training_Sports_Injury_Review.pdf)

## Can you lose fat only from specific body parts?

No, even though some studies suggest you might be. Just stick with your diet and do your cardio. Those steps will remove the excess body fat.

## Can you build muscle only on specific body parts?

Yes, you have to do exercises that target those muscles.

Some people can build their lower or upper body much faster. One simple thing you can do to balance your physique is to increase the volume of your weak parts. You'll have to decrease the volume from other parts.

## Should you take Performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs)?

No! I haven't used them and can't advise you on the effects and side effects of these. Also, you shouldn't do anything illegal! That said, train for at least 5 years before seriously considering them.

In my opinion, recreational athletes shouldn't use this stuff - it requires a very knowledgeable coach, lots of cash, medical supervision, trusted source(s), and you still can't guarantee risk-free outcome!

## Who is this book for?

This book is written for the regular gym goer that wants to get stronger, build muscle and lose some fat.

You might have a job (including a side-hustle), family (including kids), and just enough money to spend on a gym membership card. The time you have might be your limiting factor. Still, you should be able to reserve 10-12 hours/week for the gym.

- You are a woman or a man between 18 and 60 years old
- You are ready to stick with it until results start showing up (it might take time)
- You are healthy and cleared for doing resistance training by your healthcare professional
- You want to be the best version of yourself
- You want to lose weight and/or build muscle
- You are not afraid of putting hard work
- You DO NOT want to spend crazy amounts of cash on supplements
- You DO NOT want to win bodybuilding or powerlifting events (that would require much more optimized/prioritized approach)
- You DO NOT have massive amounts of time to spend in the gym

## How I started lifting?
