{class: part}

# Consistency

> Slow and steady wins the race. Like every time!

I was talking with someone at the gym (after a set of squats):

- Person: Whoa, you train 2 times a day. That's why you squat so much, right? (actually, my squat is pretty weak)
- Me: Well, I train 4 times/week. How often do you train?
- Person: Oh, I train every day.

3 months later

- Me: Hey, haven't seen you around for a while. How is training going?
- Person: Oh, haven't trained for the past 2 months. Life just happened.

The moral of the story is: don't do a weak start. You need to build the habit of hitting the gym. That takes some time. Start with 3 times/week and ramp-up to 4 or 5 times. Catch yourself smiling after a hard set. Hit some PRs. Make a friend or two. Talk to a hottie. Just never stop!

## Motivation

I don't care if you want to go Keto. You maybe want to do fasting cardio. Choose a strength-focused routine or hypertrophy-biased one. You might want to follow 5 full-body workouts per week routine. You might dislike the gym and love riding your bike!

If that is the thing that keeps exercising, progressing, moving, keeping your body within acceptable body fat percentage, and keeps a smile on your face. KEEP DOING IT!

Find the thing that keeps you happy and going in the long run. Do it until the end of time, and don't care about others' say. Except if you're harming yourself.

Signing up for a local powerlifting meet might help you stay motivated too. So, you might want to give it a shot.

## Dealing with injuries

Getting injured in the gym is extremely unlikely. Unless you do something really stupid you, you'll be fine. But, there will be aches and pains.

Your lower back might start hurting, all of a sudden. Your knees might start making strange noises during squats. You might experience some pain, too! Should you declare yourself injured, get out of the gym, and never come back? Highly unlikely that this might be the correct approach.

Please, understand this - you're tough really tough. Your body can endure a lot! It can heal (repair) itself, so you can continue with your life. And of course, always consult with your doctor ;)

Watch/read the injury management resources at the end of the book to learn more about the nuanced topic of pain.

## Hitting a plateau

Your gains will slow down as you progress. They might even halt altogether.

At times like this, you might have to try out something different. Of course, do not freak out when a single week doesn't pan out. There are a couple of things you might try when you stop lifting more weight (or even start lifting less):

- Get more sleep (for at least 3-4 nights), if you aren't sleeping enough
- Increase the volume and/or the frequency on the lift/muscle group
- Increase your calories
- Do a deload/pivot week

Stress (from your life) can have a huge influence on your lifting sessions and diet. Extremely stressful periods can take 20+ lbs on your lifts and put some water weight on your body. Relax, this will not last for long!

## Keep your diet going

Put all the junk food you have in your house into the trash. If somebody else is buying it - tell them to keep it hidden from you. This will help a lot!

Do not give in the temptation of just trying out something sweet. When was the last you ate only 1 Oreo biscuit? You'll eat 2-3 packs once you start. Remember, sugary stuff is addicting. High fat and sugary stuff is something like a drug for your brain. Grab an apple and avoid the addiction!

## You will fuck up

It's not a question of if, it's a question of when. You must be prepared. You might start having much more cheat meals, slack of the gym, and skip whole weeks.

Don't get me wrong. You must absolutely try to prevent this from happening. But when you screw things up - just continue where you left off.

Trying to lose weight and ate so much ice cream that you have no calories left? No more food for you on this day. You can also do 30 minutes of extra cardio.

## Keep learning

The fitness industry is filled with a lot of BS. That's one of the reasons I decided to write this book - filter out the spammy ideas. There are scammers (ahem influencers) everywhere - selling you some _magical_ fat burner, CBD oil, warmup routine, _personalized_ workout templates.

But hey, you need to learn this on your own. There is no substitute for building your own BS detector/filter. And please, write to me when you find some BS in my writing. I would love to learn more, too!
